Tidy up the minikube platform setup documentation (#3891)
istio/istio.io: content/docs/setup/kubernetes/prepare/platform-setup/minikube/index.md

keywords: [platform-setup,kubernetes,minikube]
---

Follow these instructions to prepare Minikube for Istio installation with sufficient
resources to run Istio and some basic applications.

1. To run Istio locally, install the latest version of
   [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/minikube/), version **0.33.1 or

>    later** and a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   later**, and a
```

Author: fixed.

   [Minikube Hypervisor Driver](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-minikube/#install-a-hypervisor).

    {{< tip >}}

>     Set your Minikube Hypervisor driver.  For example if you installed the KVM hypervisor, set the vm-driver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Set your Minikube Hypervisor driver. For example, if you installed the KVM hypervisor, set the vm-driver
```

>     within the Minikube configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    within the Minikube configuration using the following command:
```

Author: fixed.

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ minikube config set vm-driver kvm2
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< /tip >}}

> 1. Start Minikube with 8192 `MB` of memory and 4 `CPUs`.  This example uses Kuberenetes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start Minikube with 8192 `MB` of memory and 4 `CPUs`. The following example uses Kuberenetes
```

>    vesion 1.13.0, however, you may alter the version to Kubernetes versions of Istio that are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   version 1.13.0, however, you can change the version to any Kubernetes version
```

Author: fixed.

>    supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   supported by Istio:
```

Author: fixed.

keywords: [platform-setup,kubernetes,minikube]
---

Follow these instructions to prepare Minikube for Istio installation with sufficient
resources to run Istio and some basic applications.

1. To run Istio locally, install the latest version of
   [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/minikube/), version **0.28.1 or
   later**.

> 1. Select a [Minikube VM driver](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/minikube/#quickstart)

Reviewer: Do we really want to dwell on this vm driver stuff here? It's just part of installing minikube. I myself use virtualbox which is the default, so I don't even need to set the `--vm-driver` and this whole part will just be noise.

Author: I don't think we want to dwell on it, but we do want to make sure people don't come back and say "what you said doesn't work".  For example, I use VMWare's mac hypervisor...

   and install it using the driver installation techniques.  Finally export the
   driver to the environment.  An example using kvm2 driver is:

>     {{< text bash >}}

Reviewer 2: Another option is to run `minikube config set vm-driver kvm2` and not have to add to your profile.

    $ export MINIKUBE_VM_DIVER=kvm2
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< idea >}}

>     You may additionally choose to add the `MINIKUBE_VM_DRIVER` export to your `.profile` shell.  By

Reviewer 2: Another option is to run minikube config set vm-driver kvm2 and not have to add to your profile.

Reviewer: Yes, this sounds good to me. There should be an optional step (or maybe just an info box) that says to `minikube config` your vm-driver, if necessary. Then the following `minikube start` command doesn't even need to include the `--vm-driver` arg.

Author: sounds better than what I got.  I will make it so. 👍

    adding this environment variable to your shell, the variable will not need to be set each time
    you start minikube.
    {{< /idea >}}

1. Start Minikube with 8192 `MB` of memory and 4 `CPUs`.  This example uses Kuberenetes
   vesion 1.13.0, however, you may alter the version to Kubernetes versions of Istio that are
   supported:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ minikube start --memory=8192 --cpus=4 --kubernetes-version=v1.13.0 \
        --vm-driver=$MINIKUBE_VM_DRIVER
    {{< /text >}}

1. (Optional) If you want a Load balancer in Minikube, you can use the
   [Minikube Tunnel](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube/blob/master/docs/tunnel.md).

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ minikube tunnel
    {{< /text >}}

    {{< tip >}}
    Running the minikube tunnel feature will block your shell and output diagonstic information.  Be

>     prepared to run this optional command in a different shell.

Reviewer 2: c/shell/terminal window/ ?

Author: I shortened this to terminal.
